> # Annotating objects

Adding labels to Kubernetes objects is crucial for management and identification, but label values are limited to 63 characters and cannot contain whitespace.

For this reason, Kubernetes provides a feature similar to labels–object annotations.

## Introducing object annotations

Like labels, annotations are also key-value pairs, but they don’t store identifying information and can’t be used to filter objects. Unlike labels, an annotation value can be much longer (up to 256 KB at the time of this writing) and can contain any character.

Annotations in Kubernetes are used to store information that can't be stored in an object's fields, often for new features that are tested via annotations before potentially being added to the API, ensuring changes are carefully considered and reversible.

## usage of annotations

Annotations in Kubernetes can be used to add descriptions and metadata, such as creator details, Git repository information, or tool-specific flags, to objects, enhancing collaboration and management within a cluster.

## Adding annotations to objects

Like labels, annotations can be added to existing objects or included in the object manifest file you use to create the object.

- Setting object annotations

  ```bash
     kubectl annotate pod <pod-name> created-by='details'
  ```

- Specifying annotations in the object manifest

  ```yaml
  apiVersion: v1
  kind: Pod
  metadata:
  name: pod-with-annotations
  annotations:
    created-by: Marko Luksa <marko.luksa@xyz.com>
    contact-phone: +1 234 567 890
    managed: "yes"
    revision: "3"
  ```

  `WARNING`

  Make sure you enclose the annotation value in quotes if the YAML parser would otherwise treat it as something other than a string. If you don’t, a cryptic error will occur when you apply the manifest. For example, if the annotation value is a number like 123 or a value that could be interpreted as a boolean (true, false, but also words like yes and no), enclose the value in quotes (examples: “123”, “true”, “yes”) to avoid the following error: “unable to decode yaml ... ReadString: expects “ or n, but found t”.

## To view specific annotations for a particular object (pod, deployment, secret, configMap, etc.), use the appropriate command.

- Inspecting an object’s annotations

  ```bash
  kubectl describe po pod-with-annotations
  ```

- Displaying the object’s annotations in the object’s JSON definition
  ```bash
  kubectl get po pod-with-annotations -o json | jq .metadata.annotations
  ```

## Updating and removing annotations

If you want to use the kubectl annotate command to change an existing annotation, you must also specify the --overwrite option, just as you would when changing an existing object label. For example, to change the annotation created-by

```bash
$ kubectl annotate pod kiada-front-end created-by='Humpty Dumpty' --overwrite
```

To remove an annotation from an object, add the minus sign to the end of the annotation key you want to remove:

```bash
kubectl annotate pod kiada-front-end created-by-
```
