> # Creating pods from YAML or JSON files

With the information you learned in the previous sections, you can now start creating pods. In chapter 3, you created them using the imperative command kubectl create, but pods and other Kubernetes objects are usually created by creating a JSON or YAML manifest file and posting it to the Kubernetes API, as you’ve already learned in the previous chapter.

## Creating a YAML manifest for a pod

```bash
# Listing 5.1 A basic pod manifest: kubia.yaml
apiVersion: v1
kind: Pod
metadata:
  name: kubia
spec:
  containers:
  - name: kubia
    image: luksa/kubia:1.0
    ports:
    - containerPort: 8080
```

The manifest in listing 5.1 is brief because it only includes initial fields, and additional fields like those in the metadata section and the status section will be added after the pod object is created through the API.

**Description for manifest**

The manifest describes a Pod named "kubia" using Kubernetes API version v1, which includes a single container also named "kubia" based on the luksa/kubia:1.0 image, and specifies that the container's application listens on port 8080.

**You can use the following command to create the file and then edit it to add more fields:**

```bash
kubectl run kubia --image=luksa/kubia:1.0 --dry-run=client -o yaml > mypod.yaml
```

## Creating and editing objects by applying the manifest file to the cluster

**Creating:**

When you post the manifest to the API, you are directing Kubernetes to apply the manifest to the cluster. That’s why the kubectl sub-command that does this is called apply.

```bash
kubectl apply -f kubia.yaml
```

Using `-f` tells kubectl to read the configuration from the file kubia.yaml and apply it to the cluster. This allows you to define and manage your Kubernetes resources through declarative configuration files.

**Editing:**

you can simply edit the kubia.yaml file and run the apply command again. Some of the pod’s fields aren’t mutable, so the update may fail, but you can always delete the pod and then create it again.

## To show events for a specific pod

```bash
kubectl get events --field-selector involvedObject.name=<pod-name>
```
