> # Using Volumes

The simplest volume type is emptyDir. This is the volume type you normally use when you need to persist files across container restarts

## Using an emptyDir volume to persist files across container restarts [❌]

[Fortune pod from the previous chapter](../chapter_6/6_3.md/#using-a-post-start-container-lifecycle-hook-to-run-a-command-in-the-container)

It uses a post-start hook to write a fortune quote to a file that is then served by the Nginx web server. This file is stored in the container’s filesystem, which means that it’s lost whenever the container is restarted.

You can confirm this by deploying the pod in the fortune-no-volume.yaml file, retrieving the quote, and then restarting the container by telling Nginx to stop. The following listing shows the commands you need to run.

```shell
$ kubectl apply -f fortune-no-volume.yaml                                  #A
pod/fortune-no-volume created                                              #A

$ kubectl exec fortune-no-volume -- cat /usr/share/nginx/html/quote        #B
Quick!! Act as if nothing has happened!                                    #B

$ kubectl exec fortune-no-volume -- nginx -s stop                          #C
[notice] 71#71: signal process started                                     #C

$ kubectl exec fortune-no-volume -- cat /usr/share/nginx/html/quote        #D
Hindsight is an exact science.  #D
```

To ensure that the same quote is served regardless of container restarts, store the file in an emptyDir volume, which persists data within the pod.

### Introducing the emptyDir volume type

- The emptyDir volume is the simplest type of volume and starts as an empty directory.
- Files written by the application to the mounted path are preserved for the duration of the pod’s existence.
- This volume type is useful in single-container pods when data needs to be preserved across container restarts.
- It can also be used when the container’s filesystem is read-only and only a part of it needs to be writable.
- In pods with multiple containers, an emptyDir volume facilitates data exchange between containers.

### Adding an emptyDir volume to the fortune pod

Let’s change the definition of the fortune pod so that the post-start hook writes the file to the volume instead of to the ephemeral filesystem of the container. Two changes to the pod manifest are required to achieve this:

1. An emptyDir volume must be added to the pod.
2. The volume must be mounted into the container.

**Explanation for this command in the YAML file:**

```shell
ls /usr/share/nginx/html/quote || (apk add fortune &&
[CA] fortune > /usr/share/nginx/html/quote)
```

- Check if the quote file exists: The ls command checks for the file's existence.
- If the file does not exist: The || operator triggers the execution of the commands in parentheses.
- Install fortune and generate a quote: Inside the parentheses, apk add fortune installs the fortune package, and fortune > /usr/share/nginx/html/quote writes a random quote to the quote file.

```yaml
apiVersion: v1
kind: Pod
metadata:
  name: fortune-empty-dir
spec:
  volumes: #A
    - name: content #A
      emptyDir: {} #A
  containers:
    - name: nginx
      image: nginx:alpine
      volumeMounts: #B
        - name: content #B
          mountPath: /usr/share/nginx/html #B
      lifecycle:
        postStart:
          exec:
            command:
              - sh
              - -c
              - |
                ls /usr/share/nginx/html/quote || (apk add fortune && \
                fortune > /usr/share/nginx/html/quote)   #C
      ports:
        - name: http
          containerPort: 80
# fortune-emptydir          0/1     CrashLoopBackOff   5 (2m16s ago)   6m20s
```

### Configuring the volume

Each volume definition must include a name and a type, indicated by the nested field name (e.g., emptyDir, gcePersistentDisk, nfs). This type field is typically an object with additional sub-fields specific to the volume type for configuration. For instance, the emptyDir volume type has two configurable fields

1. Medium

   - Description: This field specifies the storage medium for the emptyDir volume. It can be set to different values depending on the desired storage type.
   - Use Cases: Use the medium field to choose between faster in-memory storage or standard disk storage, depending on performance needs and data persistence requirements.

2. sizeLimit
   - Description: This field specifies the maximum size of the emptyDir volume. It sets a limit on the amount of storage that the volume can use.
   - Use Cases: Set the sizeLimit to prevent the volume from consuming excessive disk space and to manage storage resources more effectively

### Mounting the volume in the container

Defining a volume in a Kubernetes pod specification is only part of the setup. To make the volume accessible within a container, you must also mount it. This involves specifying the volume in the volumeMounts array within the container definition. Each volume mount definition must include:

- name: The name of the volume as defined in the pod's volumes section.
- mountPath: The path inside the container where the volume should be mounted. This determines where files written to the volume are stored within the container's filesystem.

```yaml
apiVersion: v1
kind: Pod
metadata:
  name: fortune-pod
spec:
  volumes:
    - name: content
      emptyDir: {} # Define an emptyDir volume
  containers:
    - name: nginx
      image: nginx:alpine
      volumeMounts:
        - name: content
          mountPath: /usr/share/nginx/html # Mount the volume at this path
```

## Using an emptyDir volume to share files between containers

An emptyDir volume is also useful for sharing files between containers of the same pod (it can’t be used to share files between containers of different pods)

**Example:**

Modify a Kubernetes pod that serves a random quote. Currently, the pod displays the same quote for its entire lifetime. The goal is to update the setup so that the quote changes every 30 seconds.

- Nginx as Web Server: Retain Nginx for serving the quotes.
-
- Replace Post-Start Hook: Instead of using a post-start hook, use a separate container to update the quote.
-
- Use Fortune Container: Utilize the container image available at docker.io/luksa/fortune:1.0, which periodically runs the fortune command to update the quote stored in a file. Alternatively, you can build the container yourself using provided instructions.

[all script that you need it to do this task](https://wangwei1237.github.io/Kubernetes-in-Action-Second-Edition/docs/Using_volumes.html#using-an-emptydir-volume-to-share-files-between-containers)

### Creating the pod

```yaml
apiVersion: v1
kind: Pod
metadata:
  name: fortune
spec:
  volumes:
    - name: content
      emptyDir: {}
  containers:
    - name: fortune
      image: luksa/fortune-writer:1.0
      volumeMounts:
        - name: content
          mountPath: /var/local/output # C
    - name: nginx
      image: nginx:alpine
      volumeMounts:
        - name: content
          mountPath: /usr/share/nginx/html
          readOnly: true
      ports:
        - name: http
          containerPort: 80
```

The pod consists of two containers and a single volume, which is mounted in both containers, but at different locations within each container. The reason for this is that the fortune container writes the quote file into the /var/local/output directory, whereas the nginx container serves files from the /usr/share/nginx/html directory.

### Running the pod

When you create the pod from the manifest, the two containers start and continue running until the pod is deleted. The fortune container writes a new quote to the file every 30 seconds, and the nginx container serves this file. After you create the pod, use the kubectl port-forward command to open a communication tunnel to the pod and test if the server responds with a different quote every 30 seconds.

```yaml
$ kubectl exec fortune -c fortune -- cat /var/local/output/quote
$ kubectl exec fortune -c nginx -- cat /usr/share/nginx/html/quote
```

### Specifying the storage medium to use in the emptyDir volume and sizeLimit

The emptyDir volume in the previous example created a directory on the actual drive of the worker node hosting your pod, so its performance depends on the type of drive installed on the node. If you need to perform the I/O operations on the volume as quickly as possible, you can instruct Kubernetes to create the volume using the tmpfs filesystem, which keeps its files in memory.

```yaml
volumes:
  - name: content
    emptyDir:
medium: Memory
```

The size of an emptyDir volume can be limited by setting the sizeLimit field. Setting this field is especially important for in-memory volumes when the overall memory usage of the pod is limited by so-called resource limits

## Specifying how a volume is to be mounted in the container

**The list of important volume mount options**

- `name: `The name of the volume to mount. This must match one of the volumes defined in the pod.
- `mountPath: `The path within the container at which to mount the volume.
- `readOnly: `Whether to mount the volume as read-only. Defaults to false.
